a lesson in biomechanics you can see the
the ligament itself has that complicated
twist to it using a leg of lamb from a
local butcher this is typically how
Donnell McNally would teach Anatomy but
he's also devised this cookbook for
students what I'm going to do first of
all is just take off the string that the
butcher has kindly put on it's full of
recipes but each one also includes tips
and diagrams about an a tomato a patella
groove so that's where the kneecap went
it's another way of learning if all
you've got to say something you've
learned from paper are sort of paper
image in your mind about what these
structures are like what they feel like
how strong they are how tough they are
you're going to make decisions that
aren't based on everything that you
could know whereas if you take something
apart and you play with it and you feel
it any fiddle with it you get a much
better in a model of what's going on
Donna's cookbook might not be in the
local stores but it will continue to
educate and feed students who take his
course Brady Haran East Midlands today
so this is just a leg of lamb that we've
got from the butchers in fact if we have
a look at it you can see the ball of the
hip joint just there so this is a back
leg so if you think the ball of the hip
joints there that's the Achilles tendon
there so we've got a right leg so the
idea is that we between the sort of
getting the meat out of the fridge and
the cooking of it we have a bit of a
defect so that you can actually see the
structures and have a feel and look at
them and that's what so important about
understanding these structures
especially from these sort of mechanics
point of view you can actually hold one
and fiddle with it and play with it and
see what it feels like you get so much
more of an understanding of what's
happening no it's not required it's
something that's extra they want to and
I think to be absolutely honest it
really rather depends how happy they are
in the kitchen if you're um but the the
spare ribs seem to be the the recipe
that attracts them if you're if you're
studying the sort of thing you have a
picture in your mind and if you look at
pictures in books no matter how good the
books are they flap their
two-dimensional from some fantastic
websites and there again if you look at
them they're flat there two dimensional
so this is an idea about getting them to
actually get in there and feel what a
joint sly so you can see the dot in the
knee joint moving now but also to get a
feel for what the materials align so if
you look at this hip joint here
absolutely beautiful it's lovely and
smooth and shiny and that's the
articular cartilage that of course is
what breaks down in in arthritis and you
can tell people that cartilage is nice
and smooth and shiny and what have you
but until you actually see it and feel
it you just have no real idea
you